# 2016-Fall

## 1. a) How does Java support re-usability? Provide examples.

Ans:

## 1. b) Discuss about the concept of instance variable hiding in Java.Illustrate with a code example.

Ans:

## 2. a)Make a class Human with a name and age. Make a class Employee inherit from Human. Add instance variable salary of type double. Supply a method showData() that prints the Employee's name, age, and salary. Make a class Manager inherit from •Employee.1 upply appropriate showData() methods for all classes. Provide a test program that tests these classes and methods.

Ans:

## 2. b) Why is exception handling essential? Differentiate between checked and unchecked exceptionsiwith relevant examples.

Ans:

## 3. a) Discuss about the life cycle of an Applet.

Ans:

## 3. b)Write an Applet program to illustrate the message sharing between HTML and Applets.

Ans: //// not added//

## 3. d) Differentiate between Panel and Frame.

Ans:

## 4. a)Write a program to generate a Frame with two buttons "BLACK" and "BLUE". When a button is clicked it should change the background color of the Frame to respective color.

Ans:

## 4. b) ) Write a Java Program to draw a 2D rectangle in green color. Next draw the flag of Nepal inside the rectangle. Write a string "MY NEPAL" below the rectangle.

Ans:

## 5. a) What is a socket? Differentiate between datagram and stream communication.

Ans:

## 5. b) Write the steps to create a client server program. Provide code snippet to for each steps.

Ans:

## 6. a) What pis a ResultSetMetadata. Provide a simple example code to illustrate its usage.

Ans:

## 6. b) Discuss about the different types of database drivers

Ans:

## 7. Short notes on:

### 1. Assignment vs. initialization

### 2. Closable JFrame

### 3. Runtime Polymorphism in Java