# 2019-Fall

## 1. a)With the help of object oriented programming explain how can object oriented programming scope in solving the complex program. Explain computation as simulation.

Ans:

## 1. b)Private data and function of a class cannot be accessed_ from outside function. Explain how it is possible to access them with reference of an example.

Ans:The class members declared as private can be accessed only by the functions inside the class. They are not allowed to be accessed directly by any object or function outside the class. Only the member functions or the friend functions are allowed to access the private data members of a class.

Private member functions are possible to access using pointer(reference).The code below illustrates access of private memeber using reference as pointer.

```javascript
#include<iostream>
using namespace std;

class Test
{
private:
	int data;
public:
	Test() { data = 0; }
	int getData() { return data; }
};

int main()
{
	Test t;
	int* ptr = (int*)&t;
	*ptr = 10;
	cout << t.getData();
	return 0;
}
```

## 2. a)What is constructor? Can constructor be overloaded? If yes how?

Ans:  constructor is a member function of a class which initializes objects of a class. In C++, Constructor is automatically called when object(instance of class) create. It is special member function of the class.A constructor will have exact same name as the class and it does not have any return type at all, not even void.

Yes, we can have more than one constructor in a class with same name, as long as each has a different list of arguments.
Example:

```javascript
// C++ program to illustrate
// Constructor overloading
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;
class construct
{
public:
	float area;

	// Constructor with no parameters
	construct()
	{
		area = 0;
	}

	// Constructor with two parameters
	construct(int a, int b)
	{
		area = a * b;
	}

	void disp()
	{
		cout<< area<< endl;
	}
};

int main()
{ 
	// Constructor Overloading
	// with two different constructors
	// of class name
	construct o;
	construct o2( 10, 20);
	
	o.disp();
	o2.disp();
	return 1;
}
```

## 2. b)Create a class called Employee with data member Code; Name,Address, Salary. Create a constructor to initialize the member of the class. Also create another constructor so that we can create an object from another object. Define metinber function display to display the information of the class.

Ans:

## 3. a) Explain how does composition provide re-usability? Differentiate between Is-A rule and Has-A rule.

Ans:

## 3. b) What is a hybrid inheritance? Does ambiguity occur in hybrid inheritance? If Yes? How can you remove this? Explain with example.

Ans: In hybrid inheritance, it can be the combination of single and multiple inheritance or any other combination.

Yes,ambiguity can occurs in hybrid inheritance, when a derived class have two base classes and these two base classes have one common base class.
There are two ways to avoid c++ ambiguity.

- Using scope resolution operator

Using scope resolution operator we can manually specify the path from which data member a will be accessed

- Using virtual base class
Example

```javascript
       #include<iostream.h>
       #include<conio.h>
       class ClassA
       {
              public:
              int a;
       };

       class ClassB : virtual public ClassA
       {
              public:
              int b;
       };
       class ClassC : virtual public ClassA
       {
              public:
              int c;
       };

       class ClassD : public ClassB, public ClassC
       {
              public:
              int d;
       };

       void main()
       {
		  ClassD obj;
		  obj.a = 10;        //Statement 3
		  obj.a = 100;      //Statement 4

		  obj.b = 20;
		  obj.c = 30;
		  obj.d = 40;

		  cout<< "\n A : "<< obj.a;
		  cout<< "\n B : "<< obj.b;
		  cout<< "\n C : "<< obj.c;
		  cout<< "\n D : "<< obj.d;

	   }
```

```javascript
   Output :
A : 100
B : 20
C : 30
D : 40
```

## 4. a)What are the advantages and disadvantages of using friend function?Explain with example program.

Ans:The advantages of using friend function are:-

1. It acts as the bridge between two classes by operating on their private data’s.

2. It is able to access members without need of inheriting the class.

3. It can be used to increase the versatility of overloading operator.

4. It provides functions that need data which isn’t normally used by the class.

5. Allows sharing private class information by a non-member function.

The disadvantages of using friend function are:-

1. It violates the law of data hiding by allowing access to private members of the class from outside the class.

2. Breach of data integrity.

3. Conceptually messy

4. Runtime polymorphism in the member cannot be done.

5. Size of memory occupied by objects will be maximum.

Example:

```javascript
/* C++ program to demonstrate the working of friend function.*/
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

class Distance
{
    private:
        int meter;
    public:
        Distance(): meter(0) { }
        //friend function
        friend int addFive(Distance);
};

// friend function definition
int addFive(Distance d)
{
    //accessing private data from non-member function
    d.meter += 5;
    return d.meter;
}

int main()
{
    Distance D;
    cout<<"Distance: "<< addFive(D);
    return 0;
}
```

## 4. b) What is type casting? Write a program to read a height of a person in Feet and Inches and convert it into Meter using user defined to class type conversion method. 1 meter=3.28084 feet, 1 feet=12 inch.

Ans:

## 5. a)What is function template? Create a template function to swap two values.

Ans:

## 5. b)Create a class Person with data members Name, Age and Address.Create another class Teacher with data members Qualification and Departmerit. Also create another class Student with data member Program and Semester. Both class are inherited from the class Person.Every class has at least one constructor which uses base class constructor. Create member function Show Data() in each to display the information of the class member.


Ans:

## 6. a) What is compile time and run time polymorphism? How can you achieve runtime polymorphism in C++? Explain deferred method.

Ans:Polymorphism that is resolved during compiler time is known as compile time or static polymorphism. Method overloading is an example of compile time polymorphism.
If a member function is selected while the program is running, then it is called run time polymorphism.It is also known as Dynamic Method Dispatch. Dynamic polymorphism is a process in which a call to an overridden method is resolved at runtime, thats why it is called runtime polymorphism.

Runtime polymorphism is achieved by Function Overriding.

//deferred method not added

## 6. b)What are the use of new and delete operator in a program ? Explain with an suitable example.

Ans:

## 7. Short notes on:

### 1. Overriding

If derived class defines same function as defined in its base class, it is known as function overriding in C++. It is used to achieve runtime polymorphism. It enables you to provide specific implementation of the function which is already provided by its base class.

Example:

```javascript
#include <iostream>  
using namespace std;  
class Animal {  
    public:  
void eat(){
cout<<"Eating...";
    }
};
class Dog: public Animal
{
 public:  
 void eat()
    {
       cout<<"Eating bread...";
    }
};  
int main(void) {  
   Dog d = Dog();
   d.eat();  
   return 0;  
}
```

### 2. Exception Handling

Exception Handling in C++ is a process to handle runtime errors. We perform exception handling so the normal flow of the application can be maintained even after runtime errors.

In C++, exception is an event or object which is thrown at runtime. All exceptions are derived from std::exception class. It is a runtime error which can be handled. If we don't handle the exception, it prints exception message and terminates the program.

In C++, we use 3 keywords to perform exception handling:

- try
- catch, and
- throw

### 3. Standard Template Library

The Standard Template Library (STL) is a set of C++ template classes to provide common programming data structures and functions such as lists, stacks, arrays, etc. It is a library of container classes, algorithms, and iterators. It is a generalized library and so, its components are parameterized.

STL has four components

- Algorithms
- Containers
- Functions
- Iterators