# 2017-Fall

## 1. a)What is Abstract Data Types (ADT)? Explain the different primitive operations to be performed on the data structures.

Ans: Abstract Data type (ADT) is a type (or class) for objects whose behaviour is defined by a set of value and a set of operations.
The definition of ADT only mentions what operations are to be performed but not how these operations will be implemented. It does not specify how data will be organized in memory and what algorithms will be used for implementing the operations. It is called “abstract” because it gives an implementation-independent view. The process of providing only the essentials and hiding the details is known as abstraction.

## 1. b)How data structure is different from data types? Explain the meaning of linear and nonlinear data structure with suitable example.

Ans:

## 1. c) List the applications of stack in computing as well as non-computing world. Write down the condition to check whether the element in linear queue is last element or not. Also mention how do you find the number of elements present in any queue?

Ans:

## 2. a) Write an algorithm to convert infix expression to postfix expression. Convert the following postfix expression into infix expression: abc-+de-fg-h+/*

Ans:

## 2. b) What is double ended queue? How does circular queue overcome the shortcoming of linear queue? Write an algorithm for traversing in circular queue.

Ans:

## 3. a) What are the advantages and disadvantages of Linked list? Write an algorithm to delete a node in specified position of singly linked list.

Ans:

## 3. b)What are the applications of linked list? Explain with suitable example to perform the addition of two polynomials using linked list.

Ans: //// not added//

## 4. a)Construct a BST from the following elements inserted in an order: 39, 45, 30, 60, 42, 35, 25, 32, 44. Also perform different tree traversals.

Ans:

## 4. b) What is weight balanced tree? Perform the AVL algorithm for following words are inserted in an order in an empty tree. BRIJESH, FIZZA, IMRAN, NAVIN, LOVELY, PRITY, SAMIT

Ans:

## 5. a)How recursion is different from iteration. Present your argument with suitable example for following statement: "Solving Fibonacci series using recursion is not efficient as compare with iteration".

Ans:

## 5. b) What is stable and unstable sorting? Trace the quick sort algorithm for following unordered list: 25, 30, 18, 16, 45, 40, 60, 20, 10, 7, 30, 100, 12, 14.

Ans:

## 6. a) Compare set, matrix and linked list representation of graph. What are the difference between traversing in graph and traversing in tree? Explain with suitable example.

Ans:

## 6. b) 76, 26, 37, 59, 21, 65, 75, 49, 11. From above data, store the values into hash table with 10 positions, using division method (key% table size) of hashing and the linear probing and chaining method for resolving collision.

Ans:

## 7. Short notes on:

### 1. Heap sort

### 2. Transitive closure

### 3. Big OH notation
